---
tags: contribution
layout: contribution-item
type: artwork
submission: 1079
title: "ReCollection"
thumb: /images/1079-recollection-thumb.jpg
url: "https://www.zhangweidi.com/recollection"
contributors: 
- name: weidi zhang
  affiliation: media and immersive experience center, Arizona State University 
  location: Tempe, Arizona, United States
  bio: "Weidi Zhang is a new media artist based in Pheonix and Los Angeles. she is an Assistant Professor at the Media and Immersive eXperience center of Arizona State University. Her research investigates Speculative Assemblages at the intersection of immersive media, data visualization, and AI art."
  headshot: /images/headshots/weidi-zhang.jpg
- name: Jieliang Luo
  affiliation: Independant Researcher
  location: Beijing, China
images:
- src: /images/1079-recollection-vis24k-sub1079-i7.jpg
  alt: ""
  full: true
- src: /images/1079-recollection-vis24k-sub1079-i9.jpg
  alt: ""
  key: true
- src: /images/1079-recollection-vis24k-sub1079-i8.jpg
  alt: ""

---

This artwork was born of witnessing my grandmother's memory regression
due to dementia, where her cherished stories dissolved into fragmented
words. Dr. Mary Steedly once described memories as a "densely layered,
sometimes conflictual negotiation with the passage of time", and in
2022, over 50 million people faced this painful reality of memory loss
due to Alzheimer's and related dementias. Yet, amidst this poignant
backdrop, the emergence of text-to-image AI systems in 2022 offered a
glimmer of new perspective, as they harnessed the power of language to
imagine and reassemble fragmented memories, possibly to weave what time
and disease had stolen.

When we coexist with machines, will we accumulate synthetic
recollections of collective symbiotic imagination? Is language capable
of re-weaving and synthesizing memories? How does our collective memory
inspire new visual forms and alternative narratives?

Recollection is an assemblage of intimate human-machine artifacts that
emphasizes the contributions from three sides: artists, machines, and
participants. This customized AI application facilitates multiple AI
techniques, like speech recognition, text auto-completion, and
text-to-image, to convert language input into image sequences of new
memories. As an interactive experience, participants will whisper their
personal memories with fragmented sentences, and our system will
automatically fill in details, creating new touching visual memories.

We developed our customized AI system by fine-tuning a pre-trained
transformer-based AI model to learn the documentaries of Alzheimer
patients' visual memories and their descriptions. The system imagines
new memories of "love" and "loss" by interpreting real-time
narratives from participants in the installation. Our system emerges as
a vibrant and inclusive conversation starter, transcending boundaries
with support for over 89 different languages, embracing the diverse
cultural artifacts.

In the art installation, we chose not to showcase the direct visual
output generated by our AI system. Instead, we drew inspiration from
fine-art practices such as the Monotype, a printmaking technique tracing
its origins to the 1640s, and slitscan photography, known for capturing
sequential slices of a subject over time. We aimed to present
ReCollection by combining generative methodologies with fine-art
practices, investigating new aesthetics that explore the fleeting visual
imagery, undergoing dissolution, tilting, printing, and reprinting over
time.

By providing a conceptual framework for non-linear narratives, which
constitute symbiotic imaginations, and future scenarios of memories,
culture production, and reproductions. It may inspire the cure for
memory regression by providing a future scenario, a thought experiment,
and an intimate recollection of symbiosis between beings and apparatus.
It raises people's awareness of future memory preservation and their
empathy for the dementia community through a personalized aesthetic
experience. It offers an artistic approach and future prototype for
cultural heritage reproduction and re-imagination and explores the
tensions that exist in the co-relations between visual representations,
language, and narratives.
