---
title: "Home"
layout: "home.njk"
intro: "<p>The conference and exhibition will be held alongside <a href='https://ieeevis.org/year/2024/welcome'>IEEE VIS 2024</a> at TradeWinds Island Grand Beach Resort,  St. Pete Beach, Florida, 13&ndash;18 October 2024</p>"

---


# VISAP 2024 Theme: Diverse Data

Data surrounds all life on planet Earth, and in this age of machine
learning, there is no corner left untouched by informatic flows. From
the smallest nanoparticle to the vast cosmos, we gather data about
everything we see, feel, experience, and know. However, data is not only
observed externally, but lived experientially through our connection to
digital devices, reshaping our embodied experience. *As diverse as
humans are, data is too.* At a social, cultural and philosophical level,
this deep interconnection to flows of data has the capacity to add
multiple dimensions to human behavior and identity, ultimately offering
new modes of being in the world. *Therefore, diversity takes on a new
significance.* While new technologies have given us unprecedented access
to many more data streams, we are also exposed to negative uses of data,
such as racial, social, class, and gender profiling, copyright
infringement and even identity theft. Amidst this background, we are
struck by the pressing need to create equitable data aesthetics, aimed
at enhancing social good and amplifying marginal voices. In the
framework of the VISAP program, how might shining the spotlight on
*Diverse Data* benefit humanity? What messages does data convey about
humanity, what narratives does it help shape, and how can we generate
new modes of visualization that might also contribute to diversity,
equity and inclusion. How can we extend human creativity through new
processes and practices that enhance diversity?

Together, we shall explore innovative ways to generate and create with
*Diverse Data*.

Flowing through different concepts and contexts, VISAP'24 *Diverse Data*
seeks original work examining new aesthetics and critical cultures at
the intersection of art, science and technology. VISAP'24 *Diverse Data*
welcomes relevant research papers, artwork submissions and pictorials,
for presentation in two interrelated tracks (paper/pictorials, or
exhibition track) during the IEEE Vis conference timeline. We are
seeking innovative and original contributions to the field of data
visualization, aesthetics and process that might include but are not
limited to the following topics of interest and modes of inquiry:

-   original creative work using generative technologies engaging data
    and its aesthetic manifestations;

-   experimental and analog processes that enhance new perspectives on a
    body of data

-   advanced prototypes for eco-critical and sustainable technology in a
    visualization context;

-   critical and playful data interactions that explore diversity from a
    social, cultural or political standpoint;

-   creative work that questions the origin of data and its nature;

-   prototype experimental models to visualize information in the
    context of AR/XR/VR;

-   visualizations of the more-than-human world;

-   contributions to an understanding of planetary ecology and climate
    change;

-   help to build telematic co-presence in physically remote
    environments;

-   manifest culturally safe and inclusive practices, such as
    facilitating impact in social movements (Indigenous futures, Black
    Lives Matter, 2SLGBTQIA+ and more);

-   narrow the digital divide manifest in the Global South;

-   contribute to building a more equitable world for all.

# About VISAP'24

The VIS Arts Program (VISAP) is a mini-conference and exhibition where
visualization researchers, designers, and artists come together to
showcase and discuss works at the intersection of data visualization,
art and design. VISAP'24 is an occasion for international and local
audiences to share concepts, exchange ideas, and investigate a multitude
of transdisciplinary connections. It is the biggest associated event in
the IEEE VIS conference program, connecting media arts practitioners,
data scientists, graphic designers, and theoreticians, to foster
discussion and collaboration between fields of research and practice.

Research and artworks responding to the theme *Diverse Data*, can be
either submitted to a paper/pictorials track, or to an exhibition track.

VISAP will take place face-to-face and in person. For artists and
researchers present in Tampa, there will be an opportunity to connect
with the VISAP and local artistic community via talks and/or workshops
at our central St. Pete's Beach location.

Accepted works will be published on the official VISAP website and in a
dedicated exhibition catalog. Papers and pictorials will be indexed in
the IEEE Xplore digital library.

We welcome you as artists to collaborate with artificial intelligence as
an innovative co-composer to generate new knowledge in data
visualization and processes. However, please be aware that the committee
will carefully evaluate whether this usage is fair and appropriate
within the boundaries of relevance, ethics, and intention. Please mark
any work that is AI generated as being so.

<a name="supporters"></a>

## Supporters

VISAP 2024 is possible thanks to the support of:

<div class="columns	is-desktop">
<div class="column"><a class="nohover" href="https://camd.northeastern.edu/art-design/"><img src="{{ '/images/northeastern_camd.png' | url }}" style="max-width: 400px;" alt="Northeastern University Art + Design"></a></div>
<div class="column"><a class="nohover" href="https://com.miami.edu/"><img src="{{ '/images/univ_miami_comm.png' | url }}" style="max-width: 400px;" alt="University of Miami School of Communication"></a></div>
</div>
